# Albumprinter test

This repository contains a basic setup for a JavaScript project. You
will have the luxury of having a fully configured environment that can
build a web application. See "_System requirements_" below to get up
and running! The "_Project outline_" section walks you through a basic
rundown of the structure.

## The test

You will be working in an company where our customers will purchase a
printed product. As such your expertise should not be restricted to
developing applications, but also extend to understand the requirements
of print and how to translate between the app and the print world and 
vice versa.

### Goal

You should write a very simple application where there are two scenarios:

##### Scenario 1.

* The user can select a photo file from his/her device and import it into the application
* The user can position and scale this photo on a canvas (note: photo must always cover full canvas size)
* Hit a submit button which will generate the print description as described below
 (these instructions can be displayed on screen in a text area).

##### Scenario 2.

* The user can hit an import button which loads a previously saved description
* Upon loading, the application should show a canvas that contains the photo
* Photo is scaled and positioned as expected according to the loaded print instructions

#### Deliverables

Out of the box, the application already provides you some code to load
and validate image files from your computer. You can take some inspiration
here, or if you don't like the design approach of that code, feel free
to show what you think is the "right approach" to code this application.
Don't write code that just "get's the job done", write it as if was an
application that you would have to maintain for years to come ;)

It is by no means necessary to make this application look attractive or
to spend a lot of time in providing the best interaction with the photo.
If you need to add buttons to “_move photo left_”, "_move photo right_" or
“_scale photo 50%_", "_scale photo 200%_” that is enough. It is about the
_design of your code_, NOT the design of the application interface!

It is more important to show how you write (in your eyes) a maintainable
application. As such you can use _pseudo code_ where desirable. Be prepared to
explain the steps you took in a review of this test.

#### Product canvas properties

At Albelli, we define the dimensions of our printed products in inches.
For this application we will name the product “Canvas” (a single printable surface).
This Canvas is a rectangle of 15” x 10” in size.

A photo must always fill the full surface of the canvas (in other words:
a photo must cover an area equal to or larger than 15” in width or 10” in height).

A photo has the following properties: width, height, x and y (once more
all in inches). X and Y describe the coordinates of the photo relative
to the top-left position of its canvas.

#### Print description

The print description you will generate (in scenario #1 of your application)
can be in any format of your liking, as an example you could consider
the following output in JSON format:

    {
        "canvas": {
            "width": 15
            "height": 10,
            "photo" : {
                "id": “fileName”,
                "width": 20,
                "height": 20,
                "x": -2.5,
                "y": -5
            }
        }
    }

#### Rules

Once you receive this test by e-mail you must copy this repository to
your own GitHub account in which you will write your test.

You are free to use any libraries that make your life easier. However
be sure to write your own logic for the part that is "Albelli unique" code.
You can use a framework, but we are more interested in seeing how you
would structure things if you didn't have a framework that defines the
design pattern for you.
 
Your application should run on the latest public version of Google Chrome.
You don't have to worry about making your code work on any other browser, as
such you are free to use anything that is supported by Chrome and not worry
about cross-browser implementations.

## Project outline

The entry point for your JavaScript application is _./js/main.js_. The build script
will ensure these get automatically built for use in your browser.

The project uses SASS as a preprocessor for writing your styles (though you can
write regular CSS inside a .scss file if you would like to). If you choose to use CSS,
you can use _./css/main.scss_ as your entry point SASS file.

All build output will be stored in the _./dist_ folder, this is
automatically generated by the build script and its contents can be ignored.

## System requirements

In order to build the project you will need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/).

Once you have Node, you will also have NPM available to you. NPM is Node's
package manager which will resolve dependencies for you.

In the root of this repository, you can resolve all these dependencies via
the command line using:

    npm install
    
You can now start developing the application using Webpack. by typing:

    npm start
    
The following will happen:

 * All JavaScript is included and built for the browser
 * All SASS styles are converted into CSS
 * Your browser will open and run the application
 * File watchers are started:
   If you add/remove/change HTML, SCSS or JS files the
   appropriate rebuild tasks are automatically run and your browser will
   be refreshed automatically. This allows you to instantly view the
   results of your changes.

You can add / remove / change files to in the source folder and your
browser will automatically update to reflect the changes.

You can use your favourite editor to edit your files.
